# etch-a-sketch
Welcome to my first public project! This project has been produced as a result of my initial studies using The Odin Project. In this task, I created an Etch-A-Sketch game with the knowledge I have gained from the Foundations Course in TOP, a game that creates whatever the user would like to draw on a customisable grid. I took the project a step further by generating random colours instead of only one colour on the grid when the user's mouse tracks over it. 
This project came with a few challenges for me. The first was the general process of remembering what I had learnt in my initial studies, especially regarding CSS because of my pause in study for a few months of travelling in which I was unable to bring my laptop with me. However, this was not too much of a hurdle with some extra revision. I found this project to be a little bit easier than I had originally thought, all things considered. The first practical challenge that I faced was creating the grid, but was sorted with some brief research in which I discovered that I needed to create a "for" loop that contained the dimensions of the X and Y axis (or i and j, if you will). The hurdle that caused me the most issues in the development of this project was easily the ability to reset the game whenever the grid dimensions changed. Resetting the game to only clear the grid of any drawings was a very simple task, which only involved a button that enacted a function that changed the colour of the cells back to the original colour, however, resetting when the dimensions changed was proving to be a different beast and was a challenge that had me stumped for many hours. The issue was that whenever the dimensions were changed, the grid would not reset, but would instead add the number of cells on when the dimensions were increasing (which was fine), but would add a new grid on top when the dimensions were being lowered and would distort the grid substantially (not fine). The answer came in a relatively surprising way when I moved on from the issue to implement a slider for the selection of the grid dimensions (I had been using a button that creates an alert up until this point. In the process of creating this slider, I happened to stumble upon the one single line of code embedded within the function that solved the issue entirely "grid.replaceChildren()" leaving me slightly perturbed at how profoundly simple the answer to my hours of head scratching was - an emotion that I am sure anybody reading this has felt hundreds of times.
The project primarily taught me a lot about where certain lines of code should go. Lines of code that I had assumed would be best suited as their own functions to act upon the main function involving the creation of the grid were actually to be placed within the function itself - such as that dreaded replaceChildren code. It also taught me a lot of novel details that can be added into a program such as the slider and the random colours. It was especially nice in this project to be able to mix all of the programs I have learnt into one project - making flexbox work with CSS alongside a functions and placing them all in the right spot for my game.
Thank you for using my Etch-A-Sketch and I hope you have enjoyed analysing the code for my first ever project (the first of many as I continue my journey!)
